---
id: manual-testing
title: Automate Manual Testing with Keploy
sidebar_label: Manual Testing
description: This glossary has an explanation of all the terminologies that beginners find difficult to understand at first glance.
tags:
  - explanation
  - Glossary
keywords:
  - API
---

## How Manual testing is done?

Manual testing involves the execution of test cases by human testers without the use of automated testing tools or scripts. Testers manually interact with the software application, inputting data, and evaluating its behavior against expected outcomes.

## What are the limitations of manual testing?

While manual testing has its benefits, such as flexibility and human intuition, it also comes with several limitations:

- Time-Consuming: Manual testing can be time-consuming, especially for large and complex applications. Testers need to repeat the same test cases manually, leading to slower testing cycles and delayed releases.
- Resource-Intensive: Manual testing requires a significant investment in human resources. As the size and complexity of the application increase, so does the need for skilled testers to execute test cases effectively.
- Limited Coverage: Manual testing may overlook certain test scenarios or edge cases due to human error or oversight. Testers may not have the time or resources to execute every possible test case, leading to gaps in test coverage.
- Non-Reproducible: Manual testing results may vary depending on the tester's skill level, experience, and interpretation of test cases. Test results may not be reproducible, making it difficult to identify and fix bugs consistently.
- Costly: Manual testing can be expensive, particularly when hiring skilled testers and allocating resources for manual test execution. As the application evolves, the cost of manual testing may increase exponentially.

## How Keploy can help automate manual testing?

Keploy can help address the limitations of manual testing by automating various testing processes:

- Test Automation: Keploy supports automated testing with various testing frameworks and tools. You can automate the execution of test cases, reducing the need for manual intervention and speeding up the testing process.
- Continuous Integration (CI): Keploy integrates with CI pipelines, allowing you to automate the execution of test suites as part of the CI/CD process. You can trigger automated tests whenever new code is pushed to the repository, ensuring that tests are executed consistently and efficiently.
- Regression Testing: Keploy facilitates regression testing by automating the execution of previously executed test cases. You can rerun regression test suites automatically to ensure that recent changes to the codebase have not introduced new bugs or regressions.
- Code Coverage Analysis: Keploy provides built-in tools for measuring code coverage, allowing you to identify areas of the codebase that are not adequately covered by tests. By automating code coverage analysis, you can ensure that all relevant code paths are exercised during testing.

## What are the benefits of automating manual testing with Keploy?

Automating manual testing with Keploy can provide several benefits. Such as:

- Increased Efficiency: Keploy can significantly reduce the time and effort required to run tests, especially for repetitive tasks. This allows for faster feedback and quicker identification of issues.

- Improved Accuracy: Keploy tests are less prone to errors compared to manual tests, as they can be run consistently without human intervention. Plus, they are generated by capturing real-time user interactions, ensuring that the tests accurately reflect real-world scenarios.

- Increased Test Coverage: With keploy, you can run more tests in the same amount of time, increasing the coverage of your tests by merging with existing test scripts created via unit testing frameworks.

- Cost-Effective: The Cost to generated automated tests with keploy are close to zero, making them even cheaper to run than unit-tests. This can help reduce the overall cost of testing and improve the return on investment.

- Reusability: Automated generated keploy tests can be reused across different versions of the software, making them a valuable asset in the long term.

- Better Reporting: Keploy come with built-in reporting capabilities, providing detailed insights into the test results.

- Regression Testing: You can automate regression testing, to ensure that changes to the codebase do not break existing functionality.

- Faster Time to Market: With faster feedback and quicker identification of issues, automation testing can help speed up the development process and reduce the time to market.

- Improved Quality: By catching issues early and ensuring that changes do not break existing functionality, automation testing can help improve the overall quality of the software.

Overall, by automating testing processes with Keploy, you can improve testing efficiency, increase test coverage, and accelerate the delivery of high-quality software products while reducing manual effort and costs.
